Hello.
I'm Michael Krasowski from Pluralsight.
I will be summarizing key learning objectives in the
course The Technical Business Analyst.
Well, you made it through the course.
Congratulations.
Now let's take a quick look at what's in this module.
We covered what is the technical business analyst,
bridging the gap between business and IT,
the tools of the trade, the technical business analyst in the agile world.
Also, you might be interested in certifications and training opportunities,
so I'll talk about those.
And lastly,
companion Pluralsight courses that will enhance your technical BA skillset.
Okay, let's get started.
What is the technical business analyst?
Here are the key takeaways for that module.
The technical BA role is a business analyst who in addition to
the typical business analyst responsibilities also utilizes more
complex analysis and technical tools,
possesses greater business knowledge and technical understanding of systems,
and can communicate with a richer and deeper level to both
the business and technical communities.
This can be challenging, so brush up on your communication skills,
that is the written, verbal, and interpersonal.
You need to be an excellent business analyst
transforming business needs into requirements.
That's number one to me.
You will determine why you need a new system and what it will do,
leveraging and using the necessary technical tools to
better convey those requirements.
Those are the ones we covered in the module The Tools of the Trade.
And lastly,
to have a good knowledge of the technical solutions to enable better
communication without determining how the system will be developed.
Okay, definitely a step up from a traditional business analyst.
Bridging the Gap Between Business and IT,
here are the key takeaways for that module.
The technical BA straddles the line between IT and the business to
help bridge the gap to improve business efficiency.
The technical business analyst plays a very important role in helping
guide business outcomes by improving processes,
products, services with technical solutions through their analysis acumen,
technical knowledge, and leadership.
It is important to understand the context of the organization
and your position and relationship with it.
All work in the company can be defined as being in one of
three general categories: operations, projects,
and initiatives.
So a newer,
less experienced technical BA may fit very nicely in the operations area.
Someone more experienced with the business and
technology would be best placed on projects.
And lastly,
a very experienced and seasoned technical BA would be
required for initiative activities.
The next module was Tools of the Trade.
A good tool improves the way you work.
A great tool improves the way you think.
Just the process of using a tool can elicit so many new questions leading to
new insights or lead to even cooler ideas and innovations.
Most analysts use visual diagramming techniques,
tools you can use with visual interfaces or expressions of
information will be the most productive and revealing.
Please always consider using visual tools.
I introduced you to the magnificent seven of the technical BA skill
areas where you should focus your energies and time.
Let's touch on each one of the big takeaways of those seven.
We talked about when to use UI and UX tools.
Well,
whenever there is a visual or user experience requirement anywhere and anytime,
usually this means web pages, desktop apps,
phone applications, numerical control applications,
so anything that a human will visually see and experience to get the job done.
Data modeling provides an enormous amount of business
knowledge that you need to know to enhance your deeper
understanding of the requirements.
It is a very valuable process of eliciting and validating
requirements much beyond the data itself.
Let's continue with The Tools of the Trade part two.
Today, we are awash in data,
so having good technical and analytical skills and tools to
make sense of all this data is critical.
You should have a data analytics tool or two in your hip pocket.
The majority of the interface analysis you do will be around
consuming or designing internal APIs in your company and by
leveraging existing commercial APIs, just like Uber did.
The new buzzword today though is platforms.
You may want to do some research or reading on leveraging platform technologies.
That's like APIs on steroids.
The technical BA is very well-suited to designing and
authoring the test plan and test cases.
The technical BA can play a role and bridge the gap by providing
high-level QA planning material to the developers and/or in
support of the quality assurance team.
Off-the-shelf solutions may fit best for back office
applications and requirements,
and customized software with off-the-shelf components may be the
best to differentiate your company from the pack,
as well as provide a shorter time to market approach versus pure custom apps.
Prototyping is one of your most important skills.
Prototyping produces an early model of the potential ultimate
solution based on the known requirements.
You will be using most of the magnificent seven skill areas to do prototyping.
That is, UI/UX design, data modeling, business data analytics,
interface analysis,
and being able to design solutions with off-the-shelf components and systems.
The Technical BA in the Agile World.
It is likely that the technical BA will spend more time and value in
project and release planning activities and likely less in iteration or
sprint and daily work planning activities.
Hence,
the technical BA is supporting and enhancing the translation of
business requirements into technical requirements.
Since business people are great at business and technical
people are great at highly technical activities,
it allows an opportunity for the technical BA to bridge
the gap in the agile world as well.
They can develop epic and user story documentation,
and both are written in business and user-oriented terms.
Both of these are great candidates where the
technical BA can contribute very nicely.
They should invest in INVEST.
I highly recommend that you write your user stories
following the INVEST techniques.
Think of it as a checklist to bounce each of your user stories off of.
Remember, very important, better stories result in better outcomes,
yielding value to the business quicker.
Participating with the agile dev teams.
Now, based on the nature of the makeup of the team,
the user stories, and your organization's resources,
which may be limited,
sharing the technical BA across multiple teams is an option certainly,
or maybe even dedicated to one team for very large important projects.
The technical BA can also be a proxy to the product owner.
Now,
a proxy is someone who has the authority to represent
someone else such as a representative, substitute or delegate,
or the other option is to partner with the product owner.
Either of these is a natural for a technical BA.
The product owners are usually extremely busy and could
certainly use not only your help, but your guidance and leadership as well.
Since the developers and technical team will be focused on the solution,
as they should be,
therefore you can provide the organization's big picture and what the
enterprise management is thinking from a business perspective.
The technical BA provides reinforcement of the
product owner's vision to the dev team, and that will greatly help bridge the gap as well.